---
title: Solo Spain
date: 2025-06-26
description: Two solo days in Barcelona, four days in Mallorca, two days in Sitges — and the strangers who made it.
---

I'm starting this journal from Casa Camper in Barcelona, the hotel I'm staying at tonight. It's a cool concept where there are two rooms for the same booking, one space for sleeping staring at a vertical garden, across the hall is another space for lounging with a small terrace looking into the streets.

It's been, an eventful trip. Two solo days in Barcelona, four days in Mallorca with Diana and Albert, two days in Sitges for Luting's wedding, and today's the last day here in Barcelona so I can catch Katrina's wedding in San Francisco on Saturday.

I'm such a 1:1 extrovert. Throughout the trip I had many conversations with strangers I had just met, yet at the wedding party I felt just a little out of my elements, despite being surrounded by the crowd most similar to myself among everyone else I've encountered on the trip. Let me share a couple stories while it's fresh on my mind.

## Bishop — Palma

I found this cocktail/wine bar called Bishop with 5.0 reviews a few doors down our Airbnb on the first night we got to Palma. The interior is so exquisite - there's this giant ceramic vase right in the middle, interesting ceramic on the wall and the bar - later I'd learn that it's all recycled ceramic. We grabbed seats at the bar, and I asked the older bartender for a recommendation of a drink that's creamy but not too sweet, he made something off the menu for me. I was sitting closer to the younger bartender, mesmerized when she was making Diana's and Albert's drinks. Alysia is a Colombian living in London, with a very strong British accent, and just working in Mallorca for the summer. The bar is owned by his aunt and uncle, who's the older bartender, and they just opened last year. 'Bishop' is named after their grandfather's resting place, who was the one that encouraged them to open the bar but passed away just before they closed on this place. They also have a wine shop where they sell bottled wine, but use the bar as a tasting room, but also make some of the most delicious and creative cocktails I've had, and I've had my fair share.

We checked out some other bars over the next days, but I found myself back at Bishop at the end of every night, curious to learn more about this family, and eventually met all four members, Alysia the cousin, Santiago the son, Ingress the mom and the dad who I never caught the name. Ingress' family were living in London, her career was in HR tech, Santiago in finance, they came to Mallorca three years ago on vacation and never left. They originally wanted to start in the wine industry, but the grandpa encouraged them to go in front of people, and it'll be more profitable that way. The rest is history. I was shocked at how good the cocktails were given they are brand new to mixology, but I guess with passion and hard work, they picked it up fast.

I was never the type to go back to restaurants or bars when I travel, because I would always opt for something new, but Bishop just feels so homey (and convenient). On the night when Diana was too cooked from the 70 mile bike ride and Albert and I came by the two of us, we told Alysia that Albert was planning to propose on this trip, and she promised us free drinks if it happens while we are in Palma. It ended up happening when we were back in Barcelona, but Alysia told me on Instagram that she'll remember the free drinks whenever we next visit Bishop again.

## Gaia — Sitges

I met Gaia on this stretch of rock platform extending into the ocean on the beautiful beach in Sitges. I had just escaped from Luting's pool party where conversations I've been trying to avoid from the real world flooded all back (there are plenty of cool and friendly wedding guests and it's nothing on them, I just wasn't ready for the 'what do you do', 'how's moving from SF to NY' conversations after actively trying to forget about life in the states for a week). I started walking on the rock platform because a cute black and white kitty caught my eye and I went up to pet him, unsuccessfully, then I heard beats so I walked towards it.

Gaia was wearing a bikini top, bare feet dangling out of the platform, with a smile on her face, staring into the gorgeous sunset. We made eye contact and I said I liked your beats. She said it was just from the radio, and we started talking. Turns out she's not here alone, but waiting for her partner who went to buy some smoke. They met a couple years ago in Bangalore, when Gaia took a year off from corporate life in Toronto and went home to find herself again. She had always meditated since it was introduced to her in school growing up, and she realized a lot of people don't have the toolkit so she wanted to help provide that. They are scouting a place to open their wellness center to build a community where people can come to meditate, yoga, reconnect with nature. She has this calm, confident, light hearted composure that held my attention, and I felt encouraged to share the recent thought of training to become a therapist. She said you should do it, don't be like me and wait till you are burned out, I told her that I still feel poor and she gets it, but excited that I'm thinking about it.

Her partner came back with a pack of cigarettes, a weed joint, and a bottle of cava. He is indeed like a leopard as she described, charming but silent, barely spoke but made sure we were comfortable by passing me weed and cava. I haven't had weed for a while, and the joint was so good that I felt it pretty quickly. We all fell into silence and just appreciating the remaining light from the horizon, feeling comfortable or even appropriate with the silence. They invited me to dinner but Diana and Albert had found me, so I let them leave while we sat there for a bit longer until I fed ten mosquitos.

## Alan & Jamie — Luting's wedding

There's this Asian girl in the wedding that I noticed the moment I walked into the first welcome event - pool party at the vineyard. She was wearing a brown bikini top and baggy white pants, has the lean but toned body type, the type I wish I had, and a lovely smile - I thought she was the hottest girl there (Diana and Albert disagreed). I got to meet Jamie and her partner Alan on the wedding day. They met on Hinge in Hawaii while she was working remotely there during covid, and Alan was visiting for another wedding guest's birthday. He extended the trip by a week after their first date and now they are married and live in New York. He used to work in finance and 'did business school and all that', but now owns a photography studio and a signage company for brick and mortar retail stores (yes the signs on the street that you'd see walking in SoHo). They got into it because when he opened their photography studio and wanted to make signs, he found no good options and it's such an overlooked market that they took on the challenge themselves and now becomes where he spent most of his time. Jamie helps a lot but is also a full time lawyer. The conversation was short and I was so intrigued, now thinking about it the next day, wish I had the energy to ask more questions. When I couldn't sleep after dancing and singing non stop for a few hours, I looked up their company website and found out Alan also went to HBS and started his own thing a year or two after graduation.

## Maison barista — Barcelona

I went to quite a few great cafes in Barcelona, the one that stood out the most was Maison, I loved it because they have osmanthus latte, but also because I loved the vibe of the Argentinean barista and the cute bunny latte art she made me on my first day during the trip. I showed Albert a picture and he was convinced that she used a pen or a mold. I made it back there as my second last stop before my flight back to SF, thankfully she was there again. I told her that I was so impressed by her latte art that I wanted to come one last time before the end of my trip. She said she'll make something different today with a bigger cup, and came back with a beautiful and intricate unicorn drawing. Turns out she's training for the national latte art competition in a few months, and last year's winner is a Chinese living in Barcelona, but now training in Switzerland to get ready for the latte art World Cup. I asked if she had an art background, she said she graduated two years ago with an engineering degree, thought she'd 'get a real job' soon but have just been loving it working as a barista.

---

I almost forgot it, but one sleepless night at 3am I sent a message to George, Shikhi's date that I met at musical improv who quit his tech job and now finishing the training to become a therapist. I asked if we can grab a coffee to ask him about his journey.

After the wedding on the shuttle back I was feeling down, so I texted wa, Peter and Janice, and cried. This is the first wedding that I came to without a plus one since the breakup, and seeing how much fun the couple had on the dance floor reminded me of my own, where after the first dance, Francis left me on the dance floor to chat with his French friends, and I thought it was okay at the time since I know he doesn't love dancing. Seeing what it can/should be made me realize that I settled and made peace with it myself when I shouldn't have to.

When I woke up the next day, those sad emotions were gone but I had the urge to write, not exactly sure why. I thought I'd write about my tears after the wedding, or about this girl from Costa Rica I met at Two Schmucks who's on the same divorce timeline as me and we chatted until the bar closed, or the sunset I shared in the 'Bunkers' with this local Barcelona guy who has been nomading around and I caught him in the 18 hours layover he had in Barcelona, or the 8 mile run along Barceloneta with the Italian engineer who's jaded about Barcelona and about to move away. But I guess what I'm leaving with are these inspiring stories of people who relentlessly chased after their instinct to do something different.

I logged onto Slack this morning and saw one of my experiments that was supposed to start on Monday got killed, and some negative thoughts started flooding in. We'll see what I do with these reflections when I'm back in SF.
