---
title: Three Days with Parents
date: 2025-11-29
description: Autumn in Kyoto with my parents — the annoyances, the touching moments, and remembering why we're all here.
---

I'm starting this entry sitting on the chair in our second ryokan in Kyoto, overlooking the garden and sipping tea from breakfast. It's my second time staying at this ryokan, and it was older and more inconvenient that I had remembered - I must have been spoiled in the last few years :)

My parents and I agreed, somewhere in the summer I think, to spend a month traveling together in Japan and Thailand. The last time I spent an extended period of time with them was two summers ago when I lived at home after finishing grad school and before starting a new job, but that's different as they weren't dependent on me. The time before that was the summer prior when we traveled in Europe together with my ex, right before our wedding, but I wasn't working then, and having my ex there meant we had more space (both physical and mental). In any case, this is the longest time we've ever had traveling abroad together, and probably the longest we'll ever do - because, life, and their stamina.

It's been, objectively speaking, a great trip so far. Autumn is such a gorgeous time in Kyoto, and none of us has seen fall leaves like this. We had three full days here, and except for 清水寺 and bamboo forest, I took my parents to mostly new places that I also hadn't visited before. They love making comparisons with what they can see / eat / afford in China, which is very fair, and I felt joy whenever hearing them say this is so wonderful.

Despite all this, I've been feeling a constant base level of annoyance, especially towards my dad. The first night was the first time that my parents met wa. I had chosen this cute izakaya that highlights Kyoto's vegetables, thinking they might want something not too heavy after a long day of traveling, and that the four of us can enjoy drinking at a cute izakaya. But they didn't eat much, and my dad barely spoke, all I remembered was his disdained facial expressions towards something my mom said or did. Not in a bad way, I know that's how they interacted, but I felt bad for wa, who was trying his best to get to know my parents in not so fluent Chinese. I concluded that my dad must just be tired. As the days go on though, more and more little things started triggering me: he would constantly look at the stock market while we are out and about, instead of being present at the attractions with us, a couple times because he was so glued to his phone, he ran through red lights or bumped into others; he would demand respect and admiration from my mom in everything, at the expense of her ability, for simple things like photography, or orientation; he would constantly look unimpressed, or bored, or annoyed, which for me impacted vibes, etc.

This is only my second real holiday this year after a week in Spain in June, and I was and still am emotionally exhausted from work. Instead of continuing to travel with wa in Japan and Australia, which would be such a blast and make me so happy, I chose to take my parents abroad instead, because I've only spent a few days with them per year in the last two years, and I know without me, they would never venture abroad. I know for all of these things that I was annoyed by, they were all so trivial, and I'm well aware of my own projections and expectations for how this family trip should be, especially because I put so much effort planning it, how my dad should treat my mom, and how I just want all of us to create happy memories together. I wondered if I got spoiled by having spent so much time with my wa and we are such compatible travel buddies, and I was simultaneously annoyed at my dad, and at myself for feeling annoyed at him, instead of just cherishing our time together.

Then yesterday after another small annoying thing my dad said, my mom asked me if I felt that my dad had became less adorable (讨喜) these days. I was not going to talk to her about it, because she's the one that has to deal with him day in and day out, but since she mentioned it without me prompting, I took the chance to ask her more. She said she started noticing it in the last 1-2 years, where my dad became more stubborn, fixed in his own ways, and less considerate. That's what age does to you, she would say. Part of me wanted to say that's because you let him, but I managed to not let that out, and I know that she knows that well.

I thought back to two years ago when I came home to see my parents when I was about to make up my mind to divorce with my ex. It was hard to fully explain the situation with my dad, but I felt understood, just by the way he asked me questions (that I couldn't fully answer) and the way he looked at me, full of patience and without judgement. I suddenly thought of what Mathew said during his birthday weekend, that last year was the first time when he realized that his parents no longer understood him. I'm worried that this is happening to me and my dad now. But maybe that's not fair to him, since I haven't told him anything serious.

But there have been touching moments that I know I'll want to remember. Wa and I have been reading this book called Before the Coffee Gets Cold, which is about having the chance to travel back to a particular time and meet someone for a brief moment, even knowing that no matter what you do, you can't change what happened. I explained the setup to my parents, and asked them who they'd want to meet. My dad said my grandma, and it wouldn't be a particular day, just any day, and he'd just sit with her, and maybe she'll ask him something, or maybe not. That was their interaction when dad had time to stay home. I could immediately picture the dining table they'd sit around in our Nanjing home. My grandma passed in 2014 due to stomach cancer, and from diagnosis to her passing, it was only a couple months. Dad said he felt pitiful to not have told grandma the truth, and he's not sure if she'd want to know.

My mom said she would want to see her grandma one more time, who had passed very unexpectedly after falling down some stairs in 2015. They were very close. As she said this, her eyes became watery, even though we were in a loud bright touristy restaurant.

My heart melted a little right then, and I remembered why we are all here.

Knowing that this is likely the longest trip I'll be on with them, I hope I can accept that my dad, mom, and I all have different ways to feel joy, and since I decided to take the time to spend this time with them, I can respect and be patient with what they want.
